hey there this is Josh ba screen and
today we're going to talk slap
fundamentals so if you're a total
beginner and you've never slapped before
make sure you've got your thumb out and
get ready to rock first thing is just
getting your thumb and your arms in the
right position to get a good tone so
what I recommend is having your thumb
pointed up slightly so if this is 12
o'clock you're pointed at 11 o'clock
just slightly upwards don't do this
thing that idea so you're pointed
slightly upwards your thumb is straight
your elbow is low enough that you can
get that angle so you might need to
raise your base up so you're set and now
all you need to do is rotate your wrists
like you're turning a doorknob your
thumbs not going to be moving it's all
in your wrist
the first exercise I recommend you do is
just thumb the e-string until you can
get a good tone what you might be
getting at first there's a lot of
harmonic noise that you don't really
want so what you need to do if that's
happening is just make it more bouncy
just let your wrist snap let your thumb
bounce off we move in a little closer
here you can see that my thumb isn't
really moving it's all about that wrist
so once you can get a good tone on the
e-string try it on a string fight on the
D string I try it on the g string first
you might have a little trouble getting
a good snap out of the D and g strings
but if you persevere and keep something
give it a little bit more pressure and
play with it you'll start getting a good
sound
so the next thing to do to start
building up some dexterity with your
thumb is to just play the stuff that you
would normally play with your fingers
like if you might normally do a g major
scale
just do with your thumb feel free to
start as slow as you mean to start at
first it'll be hard to get your thumb to
move too much faster than this probably
but honestly if you just keep doing it
it'll get easier to go fast and then you
can follow along with Marcus Miller or
try to so so the scales are great run
some more PES do run some baselines you
like you know funk really lends itself
to the thumb technique although that's
not the only place you can use it you
know just whatever baselines you like
just see if you can play them with your
thumb it's it's a fun experiment and
it's a good way to start getting more
versed with the technique
one little bit of my new show I will add
at this point is just to pay attention
to the angle that your thumb is at at
this joint a lot of times people have a
lot of flex here and I don't recommend
doing that because it adds a lot of
tension to your arm that you don't need
and when you're slapping you really want
your arm to be happy and relaxed
so rather than hyper extending at this
joint and just keep it straight so
there's no doesn't need to be any
tension in this joint just needs to be a
solid straight line and let your risk to
all the work
that's the fundamentals of the thumb
part of slap technique obviously there
are more components which we'll get into
but the first thing to start with is
really just getting a good tone keeping
it funky you know you can run this with
a metronome or a drum machine just start
really locking it in right away and then
start running it with some patterns do
some scales play some of your favorite
bass lines see what you can and can't do
and try pushing on those boundaries and
have fun with it and until next time
funk away